[Music]
how's it going today guys today I'm
going to teach you all how to use the
flight sim commander a flight plan or
program it's a really great program I
have no one real you pilots that train
on this to use this program so let's go
ahead and get started so we'll go ahead
and we'll sign into this thing here okay
so we're going to select the airport
that we want to take off from so we're
going to leave Edmonton International
set c/y EEG we're going to go ahead and
select that and we're going to select in
Mattoon International select and it's
going to pop up and here is Edmonton
International on the side here if you
guys want to select all the things that
I have it makes it easier to use oranges
active Blue is not active if you guys
are planning on using high-altitude
Airways then turn the jet on if you're
not going to use a high altitude always
turn it off if you want to use low
altitude Airways you need to turn on Vic
if you don't want to use those then turn
them off now there's a couple things you
need to do the first thing you need to
do is go to windows options you need to
pick the settings the color settings
that you want to use
there's lots in here you can use
whatever you want I myself I like print
form because I can print it and see
where I'm going and it looks really good
so we'll go ahead and select that
display change your font size and your
aircraft size to both large your flight
you want to have this in kilograms and
that's about it okay so let's get
started the first thing we need to do is
we need to push this button here show
flight plan and we want to select an
airport we're going to select Edmonton
International and we are going to
cyc which is Calgary International
Airport and we don't I don't have an
alternate so I'm not going to use that
okay so the first things first we need
to you need to know what's runway you're
going to take off from so you're going
to go up to weather here and we're going
to go show weather so if we just sit
here and wait a second it should load
the weather okay so it looks like the
weather is on a heading of 1 to 0 so
that's going southeast which is perfect
so we're going to take off of runway a30
I know that right away to find out which
runway is what if you go ahead and zoom
in here you can see the numbers go ahead
and zoom in a little bit better there
for you guys so the further you zoom in
the more you can see it actually will
show you your taxiways and all that
stuff you know what I'm actually going
to do I'm going to go ahead here and I'm
actually just going to change this to
programmers favorites and close that
okay there we go that's a little better
so we'll go ahead and look at that
runway 3-0 we know we're going to have
to take off into the wind so that's
really good so we're going to zoom out
over that a little bit we're going to go
to Sid and we're going to select and
we're going to go ahead and look for our
runway 3-0 now we want to find a
waypoint that's going to take us south
to Calgary so we want to find a good one
so we're going to find one until we see
one and now that one looks pretty good
so now what we're going to do is we're
going to zoom out and that looks like it
takes us right to where we want to go
which is perfect so we'll go ahead and
select that runway 3-0 see yeg to back
us we're going to fly plan now you can
see here it it takes off so when we take
off runway 3-0 will will log on to the
airway and we'll take off and we'll keep
going towards Calgary so now we're back
Ross it's going to keep going
until we get to Calgary okay so now the
wind is blowing a same direction in
Calgary which makes this really easy to
land on so now we know for a fact we
need to land on runway two eight so now
we're going to go as stars we're going
to select we're going to go here and
we're going to slick down and we want
runway to eight so now we're going to
find we're going to find one that goes
to where we want now pendel looks pretty
close let's see what else there is we
don't want that that one looks pretty
close too but you want to avoid you want
to avoid airways that will take you way
out here because you don't want that you
you would want this if you were coming
in from like Saskatchewan or something
and we don't really want that so let's
just select that select that that one
would be if we were coming southeast
which we've smart symp that one okay if
you want to look at them all you can
just click select all and this will show
you all of them we don't want to do that
so we want runway two eight and the one
that I found looked pretty good or was
it there we go okay so now what we're
going to do is we're going to go up
runway two eight to involve Templar
which looks perfect so what we're going
to go ahead do is add to the flight plan
so now you can see we have our SID we
have our star we're going to go ahead
and click down click down and what looks
like we're good so now what we need to
do is we need to zoom in here perfect
okay so now what we're going to do as
you can see you can see it's going
straight to the middle of the runway
don't worry about that we're going to
fix that what we want to do is we want
to click the show approach routes so now
we're going to click this so we want to
go here we go okay so now we're going to
go to this so
now the flight plan will take us to
Baris it's going to take us to pendel
it's going to turn off pendel and it's
going to come towards Henry right about
here that you should in intercept the
localizer and you should turn on and you
should land right into here now if you
go through here you'll see here that it
shows all of the waypoints which is
exactly what you need when you're
programming your FMC don't worry um
Henry isn't shown here because you won't
actually be flying to the Henry Waypoint
when you get to the FMC and you go to
Parcher arrivals after you select runway
runway two eight you want to select your
star and you want to select the dune of
o2 to Empire and it'll add it to the
flight plan and it'll automatically
program the flight plan to land on the
runway and that's about it folks I hope
my tutorial helped you out if you have
any questions put them down in the
comment section otherwise everybody have
a have a great flight thanks a lot